Create ui-c8y-1023-59-0-fieldbus-item-status-computed-property-11363-graft-release-cd-11490.md (#4412)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/application-enablement/ui-c8y-1023-59-0-fieldbus-item-status-computed-property-11363-graft-release-cd-11490.md

---
date: ""

> title: New computed property - Fieldbus item status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Added new computed property - Fieldbus item status
```

product_area: Application enablement & solutions
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component-YbYJ3gLU_
    label: Web SDK
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: MTM-66171
version: 1023.59.0
---

> This change introduces a new "Fieldbus item status" computed property that enables the following capabilities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change introduces a new "Fieldbus item status" computed property with the following configuration options:
```

> - **Select a coil or register**: Choose from the device protocol associated with a device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Select a coil or register**: Choose from the device protocol associated with a device.
```

> - **Choose value display format**: Decide whether to display the raw value or a transformed value using enum values defined in the coil or register's settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Choose value display format**: Decide whether to display the raw value or a transformed value using enum values defined in the coil or register's settings.
```

> - **Choose value display format**: Decide whether to display the raw value or a transformed value using enum values defined in the coil or register's settings.

Reviewer: is this somewhere visible in the UI? Should actually be "select" instead of "choose".

Reviewer 2: In the UI it looks like this:

<img width="1133" height="190" alt="2026-03-11_14-07" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/223bad16-4ea5-4f75-9702-f1843754fb8b" />

so we could write:

```suggestion
- **Fieldbus item**: Select a coil or register from the device protocol associated with a device.
- **Result type**: Select whether to display the raw value or a transformed value using enum values defined in the item's settings.
```

> The new computed property makes it possible to display the status of Fieldbus items (including their enum values) in widgets such as the "Asset table". This functionality will be progressively made available in other widgets too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new computed property makes it possible to display the status of Fieldbus items (including their enum values) in widgets such as the "Asset table". This functionality will be progressively made available in other widgets, too.
```

---
date: ""
title: Added new computed property - Fieldbus item status
product_area: Application enablement & solutions
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component-YbYJ3gLU_
    label: Web SDK
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: MTM-66171
version: 1023.59.0
---
This change introduces a new "Fieldbus item status" computed property that enables the following capabilities:

> - **Select a coil or register**: Choose from the device protocol associated with a device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change introduces a new "Fieldbus item status" computed property that enables the following capabilities:

```

---
date: ""

> title: `fieldbusItemStatus` computed property (#11363) [GRAFT][release/cd] (#11490)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: New computed property - Fieldbus item status
```

product_area: Application enablement & solutions
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component-YbYJ3gLU_
    label: Web SDK
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: MTM-66171
version: 1023.59.0
---
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `develop` to `release/cd`:
- [feat(Web SDK): [MTM-66171] &#x60;fieldbusItemStatus&#x60; computed
property
(#11363)](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/cumulocity-ui/pull/11363)

<!--- Backport version: 9.5.1 -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sorenlouv/backport)

[MTM-66171]:
https://cumulocity.atlassian.net/browse/MTM-66171?atlOrigin=eyJpIjoiNWRkNTljNzYxNjVmNDY3MDlhMDU5Y2ZhYzA5YTRkZjUiLCJwIjoiZ2l0aHViLWNvbS1KU1cifQ

> Co-authored-by: Paweł Rynarzewski <92171763+pawel-rynarzewski-c8y@users.noreply.github.com>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change introduces a new "Fieldbus item status" computed property that enables the following capabilities:

- **Select a coil or register**: Choose from the device protocol associated with a device
- **Choose value display format**: Decide whether to display the raw value or a transformed value using enum values defined in the coil or register's settings

The new computed property makes it possible to display the status of Fieldbus items (including their enum values) in widgets such as the "Asset table". This functionality will be progressively made available in other widgets too.
```
